---
layout: post
title: "Hearty Walnut Breakfast Pancakes"
author: cari
categories: [breakfast]
permalink: /pancakes/
image: assets/images/pancakes.jpg
tags:
    - '30-minutes or less'
    - breakfast
---

I've always had a soft spot for pancakes. Somehow we get to eat what is basically a cake for breakfast? I won't question it, but I did modify [Joy the Baker's pancake recipe](https://joythebaker.com/2010/07/the-single-lady-pancake/) to be just a bit healthier and more filling. We serve these with sliced bananas, peanut butter, and maple syrup.

<h3> Ingredients </h3>

- 1/2 cup plus 2 tbsp. wheat flour
- 1/3 cup wheat germ
- 1/4 cup quick oats
- 1 tbsp. sugar
- 1 tsp. baking powder
- 1/2 tsp. baking soda
- 1/2 tsp. ground cinnamon
- Pinch of salt
- 3 tbsp. avocado oil
- 3/4 cup non-dairy milk such as soy or almond
- 1 tsp. lemon juice
- Dash of vanilla extract
- 1/2 cup chopped walnuts, chocolate chips, and/or other mix-ins of your choice

<h3> Directions </h3>

1. In a small bowl, whisk together the non-dairy milk and lemon juice. Set aside.
2. In a medium bowl, mix together the flour, wheat germ, oats, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon.
3. When the milk mixture has become a bit chunky, add the vanilla and oil and stir. Mix the wet ingredients into the dry and stir to combine. The batter should be somewhat thick; adjust by adding a bit more milk or flour if the consistency is not right.
4. Fold walnuts and other mix-ins into the batter with a rubber spatula.
5. Heat a drizzle of avocado oil in a frying pan or griddle over medium heat. Add batter in spoonfuls and flatten with the back of a spoon if needed. 
6. Cook for a few minutes until bubbles begin to form on the surface of each pancake before flipping and cooking the other side.