---
layout: post
title: "Part2 lesson 9, 03 minibatch training | fastai 2019 course -v3"
author: dionne
categories: [ fastai.v3]
image: assets/images/fastai/03.png
tags: [ feature ]
---

Since fastai instructor including many people who studied fastai highly emphasized to copy the Jeremy's code from scratch, I've been using that approach.<br/>
It was fine with Part1, but from Part2, applying same strategy which was `trying to copy nbs from blank cell without peeking up original` was not enough.<br/>First, there were lots of sub-topics worth to dig in, since we've moved to bottom-up phase. And I couldn't inspect deep inside of each topic(sometimes even don't know what I was doing) only to replicating the code. It would be okay with part1 session, but seemed insufficient with part2<br/>Second, literally it was too difficult to rely on my own memory. I should have open and close up the Jeremy's too many times.<br/>So, I thought it would be great if I could draw overall picture of each notebook, making replicating process easier. And it was. (At least with `01_matmul`, `02_fully_connected`, `02b_initializing`)<br/>So I share my own supplementary, hoping it could help you to replicate code much easily and grasp the lesson that Jeremy intended.

---

From this notebook, I learned how to re-define our NN *model* and update *training* process.

Original notebook [link](https://github.com/fastai/course-v3/blob/master/nbs/dl2/03_minibatch_training.ipynb)

* [Initial Setup](#initial-setup)
{:toc}


## Initial Setup

### Data

1. Fastai for Colab env
2. import data
	* Hyper parames
		* Number of input size = data size
		* Number of output unit = value
		* Number of hidden unit
		* Number of hidden size = 1
	* Initialize the model ***(1st)*** with which gets initialized and do the forward.

### Loss function: Cross entropy loss

1. Softmax
	* Write down the formula of softmax
	* Why do we need this softmax function at the last layer?
	* Write down softmax as code.
	* Draw the softmax probability function using matplotlib
	* Why do I need a log of softmax?

2. Cross Entropy
	* Write down the formula of cross entropy
	* Draw the function using matplotlib
	* Why is this function adequate to the loss of categorical variables?

3. Negative log likelihood function
	* Why `-sum( x * log( p(x) ) )` has the name of negative log likelihood?
	* Why do we find a `negative` value instead of likelihood function? (Hint: Related to finding arg min value) [^1]
4. LogSumExp
	* What is LogSumExp
	* Why this is called trick somehow?

## Basic Training Loop

1. Write down the procedure the training loop repeats (4 steps)
2. Define the accuracy function.
3. Do the above step for an epoch with model defined at setting ***(1st training loop)***
	* Get the cross entropy function from PyTorch and use it at 1 epoch process
	* You don’t have to do this for reversed sequence since you’ve already got gradients from PyTorch.
	* Don’t forget to check the existence of attribute before you update and zero it before you get out of loop 
4. Print the loss and accuracy of one batch [^2]

## Using parameters and optimal
### Parameters

> we will use `nn.Module.__setattr__` and move relu to functional. [^3]

1. Re-define Model class using nn.Module. ***(2nd Model)***
2. What’s difference from that you made first?
3. See the layers inside model using `named_children` method
4. see one layer
5. Re-define `fit` function with using parameters, not layers. ***(2nd Training Loop)***
	* What’s difference between nn.Module’s layer / parameters?
	* Why this diff makes shorter code?
6. Make `DummyModule` class to simulate pytorch’s `__setattr__` ***(3rd Model)***
	* 3 dunder method
		* Init
		* setattr
		* repr
	* parameter function which generates each parameters in the layers
	* What does the setattr do here?
		* How can i check if I defined parameters properly?
	* What does the repr do here?
7. Call the instance of dummymodule and see repr and shape of parameters in instance

### Registering modules

1. Re-define Model class ***(4th Model)***
	* Use original layers approach
	* Register the modules
2. What is `registering modules`?
3. See the model instance (i.e. repr)

### nn.ModuleList
1. Define class SequentialModel ***(5th Model)***
	* Use nn.ModuleList
2. What does nn.ModuleList do for us? (hint: fit, loss and accuracy function)

### nn.Sequential

1. Make model instance using nn.Sequential  ***(6th Model)***
2. Why does this class make jobs easier?

### Optim

1. Define class Optimier
	* Init - params, lr
		* Why do we add list of parameters at learning rate?
	* step
	* zero_grad
	* Why do we have to no_grad() at step and zero_grad function?
2. Do the one epoch learning with optimizer instance ***(3rd Training Loop)***
3. See the loss and accuracy [^4]
4. Do the one epoch learning using PyTorch’s optim.SGD functionality ***(4th Training Loop)***
	* Define get_model function
		* why do we need this function
	* return: (1) model instance from nn.Sequential, (2) Optimizer function from optim.SGD
	* See the loss and accuracy [^5]

## Dataset and DataLoader

We will make a `dataset` / `dataloader` class to make iteration through minibatches more eifficiently.

### Dataset

1. Make class `Dataset` which has three essential components which are indispensable. (hint: 3)
	* what are three components?
2. make dataset object 1) get the length and 2) get items using index
	* compare those with originals'

3. Do the one epoch learning using data from `Datasest` ***(5th training loop)***


### DataLoader

1. make class `DataLoader` which returns next batch taking dataset batch size
2. get data from them and plot to check x, y
3. make `def fit()` which gets data from dataloader class. ***(6th training)*** 


### Random sampling

1. Why we should shuffle the training set excluding validation set?
2. When to re-shuffle the data? At the beginning of epoch? beginning of minibatch? and why I should?
3. Make `Sampler` class [^7]
	* initialized with 4 params, (int) dataset len, (int) bs, and (bool) shuffle
	* make instance as generator which returns [shuffled] index of the next batch
4. Test class Sampler with 10 size of data [^6], [^8]
	* suppose this data is train data and see the returnings
	* suppose this data is valid data and see the returnings
5. re-defin `DataLoader` (2nd)
	* initialized with
		1. dataset instance
		2. sampler instance
		3. collate function [^9]
	* generates stacked tensor
	* What do we need collate function? How can I variate them?
6. test newly defined dataloader
	* grab one batch and plot the first item
	* grab next batch and plot the first item
	* see the loss and accuracy with newly clutched batch [^10]

### PyTorch DataLoader

1. What's difference between pytorch's dataloader and our dataloader?
2. from torch, call dataloader, sampler for train and validation
3. see the loss and accuracy
	- rendering collate and sampler
	- do above same way without previously defined collate and sampler [^11]

## Validation

1. make the new fit function (7th training)
	* what's difference with previous version?
2. Go back and see the previous process. Has validation process been executed well?
3. Answer to the Jeremy's Question: *Are these validation results correct if batch size varies?*
4. make get_dls funciton
	* return: dataloaders for train/valid sets
5. implement in 3 lines of code which obtain the data loader and fit the model 

## Unsolved questions

[^1]: I’ve heard that finding convex downward / upward is not the same and there are preferences. Find out which is easier and explain why.
[^2]: What’s relationship with above one epoch training and this one batch loss / accuracy?
[^3]: Study other dunders
[^4]: I don’t know if I’m getting better loss since I’m using better approach or doing same thing at same data repeatedly -> shallow: check I would get same result when I run this cell before others deep: inspect details of mechanisms each approach uses
[^5]: What does it mean ‘except we’ll be doing it in a more flexible way!’?
[^6]: why is this returning its own?
[^7]: torch.randperm and torch.arange
[^8]: pack and unpack the argument of python
[^9]: Why do we need to dataset and sampler instance which was already given dataset as argument?
[^10]: Why did he renew the model when to test new dataset?
[^11]: why is loss of the second less?