---

layout: post
title: "중심극한정리, 화용론 숙제"
date:   2018-10-10 17:56:00
img: numbers.png
tags: [Pragmatics, Homework]

---


- Central Limit Theorem
- 어떤 실험을 했을 때 n-percent confident는 무엇을 의미하나?
	 - infinite hypothetical sequence of events.
	 - 따라서 분리된 실험을 계속 여러번 했을 때 그 실험들을 평균 내면 그건 평균이 될 것이라는 것. n percent의 신뢰정도로.

- What's the probability that this interval contains a true p?
	- from 0 to 1

- Bayesian approach we will be able to compute an interval and **actually say** there is probably a p is in this interval is 95% based on a random interpretation of an unknown parameter.

[khan, chain rule](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jpHreXjtw1Q)
[math way, derivations of log function](https://www.mathway.com/ko/popular-problems/Calculus/595824)

---

화용론적 작업분담

One robust linguistic phenomenon involving the interaction of Q and R principles is the division of pragmatic labor.

Given two expressions covering the same semantic ground, a relatively unmarked form – briefer and/or more lexicalized – tends to be R-associated with a particular unmarked, stereo- typical meaning, use, or situation.

While the use of the periphrastic or less lexicalized expression, typically more complex or prolix, tends to be Q-restricted to those situations outside the stereotype, for which the unmarked expression could not have been used appropriately.

> ?? 여기 tends to be Q-restricted to those situations outside the stereotype, ㄱ 아니라 Q-associative 아님?
---

이건 (4) 설명~


A particularly rich explanatory vein lies in the realm of anaphora, in which the choice of an overt pronoun over controlled PRO in infinitivals in both English object raising (ECM) and Romance subjunctive constructions can be attributed to the division of pragmatic labor, as can switch-reference phenom- ena and the use of an overt subject in a pro-drop (null-subject) language like Turkish or Catalan, in which the overriding of “Avoid Pronoun” will often implicate change of topic. Valuable cross-linguistic studies of the neo-Gricean pragmatics of anaphora, with copious references, are provided in Levinson (2000a: Chapter 4) and Huang (2000a, this volume)

---

[Null-subject language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Null-subject_language)
null subject language가 linguistic typology 개념이라고 합니다.
두